---
title: Network Names
abbrev: NetworkNames
docname: networknames
date: 2015-2-29
category: info

ipr: trust200902
area: General
workgroup: ICNRG Working Group
keyword: Internet-Draft

stand_alone: yes
pi: [toc, sortrefs, symrefs]

author:
 -
    ins: C. Ghali
    name: Cesar Ghali
    org: University of California Irvine
    email: cghali@uci.edu
 -
    ins: G. Tsudik
    name: Gene Tsudik
    org: University of California Irvine
    email: gts@ics.uci.edu
 -
    ins: C. A. Wood
    name: Christopher A. Wood
    org: University of California Irvine
    email: woodc1@uci.edu

normative:
    LCI:
        target: https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-mosko-icnrg-ccnxlabeledcontent-01
        title: Labeled Content Information
        author:
            -
                name: M. Mosko
                ins: PARC, Inc.
    SEMANTICS:
        target: https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-irtf-icnrg-ccnxmessages/
        title: CCNx Messages in TLV Format
        author:
            -
                name: M. Mosko
                ins: PARC, Inc.
            -
                name: I. Solis
                ins: PARC, Inc.

--- abstract

We describe a mapping between application-layer and network-layer name spaces in CCN.
This mapping can be deterministically computed by consumers and producers,
using application names formatted according to the standard CCN URI scheme. Meanwhile,
consumers and producers can continue to use application-layer names. We detail the
computation and mapping function requirements and discuss their
impact on consumers, producers, and routers.
<!---
CESAR: the next sentence might go away.
-->
Finally, we
comprehensively analyze several mapping functions to show their
functional equivalence to standard application names and argue that
they address several issues that stem from propagating application names into
the network.

--- middle

# Introduction

Every CCN interest contains a routable name,
composed of one or more variable-length components that are opaque to the network
\cite{mosko2015labeled}. The
application expressiveness of names eliminates the need for name resolution services
such as the Domain Name System (DNS) \cite{mockapetris1987domain}. A router uses
names in conjunction with a Forwarding Information Base (FIB)
to forward interests towards the nearest copy of the desired content.
As in IP, the router data
plane is responsible for searching the FIB using longest-prefix matching to identify the
appropriate interfaces (if any) on which an interest should be forwarded.


# Motivation

Although the above design is simple, it has several undesirable consequences. First, it
places non-deterministic computational burden on routers that must index the
FIB to forward incoming interests. Modern high-speed FIB designs use data
structures that range from hash tables \cite{so2013named} to prefix tries
\cite{de1959file,brass2008advanced}. All of them must account for variable length
names and name segments. Second, and perhaps more importantly, the current
design forces application-layer semantics (i.e., names) down to the network ayer.
In summary, application semantics have
no use in the data plane of the network. Thus, the application representation of a name
is not needed to enable messages to be correctly forwarded. We therefore seek an
alternative representation that is more network-friendly.

%%%HERE

# Network Names

Let N = [N1, N2, ..., Nk] be a CCN name as per {{LCI}} with k name segments. For example,
the name

~~~
    /edu/uci/ics/woodc1
~~~

is equivalent to the vector

~~~
    [edu, uci, ics, woodc1]
~~~

According to the latest CCN specifications {{LCI}}, an Interest carrying this name
would have the following TLV-encoded name in the Interest packet. (We use
S-expressions with the length field omitted for simplicity of presentation.)

~~~
(T_NAME
    (T_NAMESEGMENT "edu")
    (T_NAMESEGMENT "uci")
    (T_NAMESEGMENT "ics")
    (T_NAMESEGMENT "woodc1")
)
~~~

In the proposed network name scheme, each name segment would be replaced
by a hash digest. Specifically, the i-th name segment will be replaced
with a hash digest based on the 1,2,...,i name segments. Formally, we
denote this as follows:

~~~
N1' = H(N1)
N2' = H(N1 || N2)
N3' = H(N1 || N2 || N3)
...
Ni' = H(N1 || ... || Ni)
...
Nk' = H(N1 || ... || Nk)
~~~

where H is a hash function which we will define later. Using this construction,
the network name N' for a given application name N is represented as
N' = [N1', N2', ..., Nk'].

In addition to this network name, we also require that packets with names
carry a *name fingerprint* Np, computed as follows:

~~~
    Np = CRH(N)
~~~

where CRH is a collision resistant hash function such as SHA256.

With a suitably chosen H, the relationship between N and N' forms a bijection.

## Hash Function Criteria

Since the name is only used for forwarding purposes, it is not required that
H be a cryptographic hash function. However, it is required for the name fingerprint
function to be a cryptographic hash function. We mandate that this function be the
same of that which is used to compute the ContentObjectHashRestriction that
is specified in {{SEMANTICS}}.

## Packet Format

The network name and fingerprint are represented in the packets as follows.

~~~
(T_NAME
    (T_NAMESEGMENT N1')
    ...
    (T_NAMESEGMENT N2')
    (T_NAMEFINGERPRINT Np)
)
~~~

Contrary to the current encoding outlined in {{SEMANTICS}}, network names have a
fixed size based on the H. Therefore, we do not need to encode the length
of each name segment block. This saves 2 bytes for each
name component.

In particular, let D be the digest size for H and Dp be the fingerprint
size of CRH. For a name of length L, the number of name segments |N'| can
computed as:

~~~
    |N'| = (L - Dp) / (D + 2)   # 2 is for the T byte in each segment
~~~

The byte offset Bi for the i-th name segment Ni' is computed as:

~~~
    Bi = (D + 2) * i
~~~

# Forwarder Implications

Network names can be used for routing the say way standard application names are used
in {{SEMANTICS}}. FIBs must be populated with network names manually or by the routing protocol.
However, what changes is the information stored in the FIB and how Content Object responses
are matched to Interest requests. Currently, Content Objects with names only match
Interests with names if their names are identical. Therefore, when matching a Content
Object with an Interest stored in a PIT entry, a match is only said to occur if
the Interest name fingerprint matches the Content Object name fingerprint. Since these
are computed by CRH (from which collisions occur with negligible probability), this
is no different from comparing the standard application names based on exact match.

# Invertible Network Names

Since we use a hash function to compute N' and Np, one concern is that N would not
be recoverable since hash functions are (in this context) one-way functions.
However, consider the cases when one might need to recover N from N' and Np.
Inversion is only necessary when there's application data in the name, i.e.,
there is some data that the producer needs to use to produce a result. Were
this not the case then an Interest could be satisfied by a network cache. This
implies that (a) the producer already generated the *same* content for another
consumer who issued the *same request* and (b) the result will not change from
the producer (assuming identical requests yield identical response).
Thus, we conclude that application data should *not* exist in the name and should
reside in the Payload of an Interest. The Payload ID, which is the hash of the Payload
field in an Interest, is still reflected in the name N and N', and therefore also Np,
so as to give N' sufficient randomness to avoid being satisfied by a cache.

In summary, we conclude by observing that Interests convey one of two requests:

1. Requests for content that already exists. The name is the complete locator
and identifier of the content.
2. Requests for content that will be generated on-demand by the producer. The name
is only the locator for the content and the Interest Payload contains data to
be used by the producer to provide the content.

Our network naming scheme permits both types of requests while providing better
separation between locators and identifiers.

# Experimental Analysis

We run several experiments to study the overhead of hash based names as compared
to human-readable names.

Current CCNx implementation
uses TLV-based format for human-readable names. In this case, each name component is prepended by $2$ bytes
specifying its type, and $2$ bytes specifying its length. Thus, a total of $4$ bytes
extra are required per components. If names are haseh-based, as described above,
name components will have fixed and pre-determined size. Therefore, only their type is
required, i.e., $2$ extra bytes. We compare the size of both human-readable and hash-based names
using $50$GB of URLs collected from \textcolor{red}{where did the URL came from Chris?} \cite{reference}.

TODO: add the figures of the above experiment.

TODO: run the code to determine how much we save

TODO: compute entropy of URIs as they exist today
